README.md, before:

# ebx-github-cycletime

## What it is

ebx-github-cycletime is a simple tool for exporting merged PRs from across a github organisation. 
This exported data can then be easily used in cycle time calculations, in addition to other 
analysis.

It is created and maintained by [Echobox](http://echobox.com).

## Licensing

ebx-github-cycletime itself is open source software released under the terms of the Apache 2.0 License.

## Getting Started

At the time of writing the application is intended to be run from source (>=Java 14). Use the 
following steps to get started:

1. Download the source.
2. Set an environment variable `ORG_ID=[org]` where _[org]_ is the github organisation you want 
   to analyse.   
3. Set another environment variable `GITHUB_OAUTH=[token]` where _[token]_ is a github token with 
   read access to the required organisation. Please see [here](https://github-api.kohsuke.org/index.html) 
   for alternative auth mechanisms if needed.
4. Run the application.

This will export all recent PR data (see `DEFAULT_EXPORT_DAYS_IF_NO_APPEND`) from the organisation 
into `RAW_CSV_FILENAME`. Subsequent steps will then clean this data by applying optional 
'preferred author name' mappings (i.e. swap github exported names for those provided in 
`PREFERRED_AUTHOR_NAMES_CSV`) and sort by the PR merge date. The cycle time aggregation uses 
`AUTHOR_NAMES_TO_SQUADS_CSV` to map authors to squads. Authors can be in multiple squads.

If the application is run again with the same configuration it will append new PRs to 
`RAW_CSV_FILENAME` and update all downstream documents using all available data.

For example config files please see `preferred_author_names.example.csv` and 
`author_names_to_squads.example.csv`. Just add your values as required and remove the 
`.example` part of the filename.

**Alternatively you can modify Main.java to export just a single PR:**

```
GitHub github = GitHubBuilder.fromEnvironment().build();

GHOrganization githubOrg = github.getOrganization(System.getenv("ORG_ID"));

// Specify your own repo name here
String repoName = "ebx-linkedin-sdk";
GHRepository repo = githubOrg.getRepository(repoName);
int PrNum = 218;
GHPullRequest pullRequest = repo.getPullRequest(prNum);
PRAnalyser analyser = new PRAnalyser(repoName, new PullRequestKohsuke(pullRequest));
analyser.analyse();

// Then define what you want to do with the analysis
// ...
```

### Helpful notes:

#### Calculating PR reviewed by

Duplicate reviews within a short time period are only counted once.

#### Cycle time component values

A maximum component value is defined in PRAnalyser to avoid any anomalies due to force pushes or 
bad merge history.

#### How to manually verify

The best options (we're aware of) to  manually verify the exported data:

PRs Merged - https://github.com/pulls?q=is%3Apr+author%3AMarcF+merged%3A2022-03-01..2022-03-31

PRs Reviewed - https://github.com/search?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3AMarcF+-author%3AMarcF+merged%3A2022-03-01..2022-03-31

## Contributing

If you would like to get involved please follow the instructions
[here](https://github.com/ebx/ebx-github-cycletime/tree/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Releases

We use [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/).

Commit message:

SDK-174 Added JIRA support for enriching data and creating childissues_to_epic.csv (#1)
* SDK-174 Initial test commit to enrich export with JIRA data.

* SDK-174 Moved the prototype code into an enricher class structure.

* SDK-174 For issue keys to work types we'll need to take a different approach than only considering PRs.

* SDK-174 Changed direction by adding an Epic POJO and ChildIssueToEpic CSV export. This allows for more general extraction of the relationships. Next step will be to store something sensible for the failed lookups.

* SDK-174 Can now complete a full issue worktype export, including querying JIRA.

* SDK-174 PR Cleanup

* SDK-174 PR cleanup.

* SDK-174 Added PR template.

* SDK-174 Changed to major version bump.

* SDK-174 Review feedback.

* SDK-174 Fixed space.

* SDK-174 Fixed broken link

README.md, after:

# ebx-github-cycletime

## What it is

ebx-github-cycletime is a simple tool for exporting merged PRs from across a github organisation. 
This exported data can then be easily used in cycle time calculations, in addition to other 
analysis.

It is created and maintained by [Echobox](http://echobox.com).

## Licensing

ebx-github-cycletime itself is open source software released under the terms of the Apache 2.0 License.

## Getting Started

At the time of writing the application is intended to be run from source (>=Java 17). Use the 
following steps to get started:

1. Download the source.
2. Set an environment variable `ORG_ID=[org]` where _[org]_ is the github organisation you want 
   to analyse.   
3. Set another environment variable `GITHUB_OAUTH=[token]` where _[token]_ is a github token with 
   read access to the required organisation. Please see [here](https://github-api.kohsuke.org/index.html) 
   for alternative auth mechanisms if needed.
4. Run the application.

This will export all recent PR data (see `DEFAULT_EXPORT_DAYS_IF_NO_APPEND`) from the organisation 
into `RAW_CSV_FILENAME`. Subsequent steps will then clean this data by applying optional 
'preferred author name' mappings (i.e. swap github exported names for those provided in 
`PREFERRED_AUTHOR_NAMES_CSV`) and sort by the PR merge date. The cycle time aggregation uses 
`AUTHOR_NAMES_TO_SQUADS_CSV` to map authors to squads. Authors can be in multiple squads.

If the application is run again with the same configuration it will append new PRs to 
`RAW_CSV_FILENAME` and update all downstream documents using all available data.

For example config files please see `preferred_author_names.example.csv` and 
`author_names_to_squads.example.csv`. Just add your values as required and remove the 
`.example` part of the filename.

**Alternatively you can modify Main.java to export just a single PR:**

```
GitHub github = GitHubBuilder.fromEnvironment().build();

GHOrganization githubOrg = github.getOrganization(System.getenv("ORG_ID"));

// Specify your own repo name here
String repoName = "ebx-linkedin-sdk";
GHRepository repo = githubOrg.getRepository(repoName);
int PrNum = 218;
GHPullRequest pullRequest = repo.getPullRequest(prNum);
PRAnalyser analyser = new PRAnalyser(repoName, new PullRequestKohsuke(pullRequest));
analyser.analyse();

// Then define what you want to do with the analysis
// ...
```

### (Optional) Integrating with JIRA data

We've added basic support to retrieve data from JIRA, a proof of concept 
if you will. If JIRA credentials (as environment variables) are provided and PR titles are in the 
expected JIRAEpicWorkTypeEnricher.EXPECTED_ISSUE_KEY_PATTERN the default app configuration will 
build a list of all issue keys and their associated parent epic. Exported as childissues_to_epic.csv. 
Any existing file is used as a cache on subsequent executions to avoid repeating the same lookups.

Required environment variable keys, with examples are:

* JIRA_URL = https://yourdomain.atlassian.net
* JIRA_EMAIL = marc@yourdomain.com
* JIRA_API_TOKEN = (can be created here - https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens)

### Helpful notes:

#### Calculating PR reviewed by

Duplicate reviews within a short time period are only counted once.

#### Cycle time component values

A maximum component value is defined in PRAnalyser to avoid any anomalies due to force pushes or 
bad merge history.

#### How to manually verify

The best options (we're aware of) to  manually verify the exported data:

PRs Merged - https://github.com/pulls?q=is%3Apr+author%3AMarcF+merged%3A2022-03-01..2022-03-31

PRs Reviewed - https://github.com/search?q=is%3Apr+reviewed-by%3AMarcF+-author%3AMarcF+merged%3A2022-03-01..2022-03-31

## Contributing

If you would like to get involved please follow the instructions
[here](https://github.com/ebx/ebx-github-cycletime/tree/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Releases

We use [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/).
